---
title: "Building trust in AI code generatiors: Data poising attacks presented by Domenico Cotroneo"
date: 2026-04-01
draft: false 
toc: false
layout: post
permalink: /posts/2026-04-01
author_profile: false
tags:
  - Generative Artificial Intelligence
  - Cognitive Science  
---

AI code generation security and the quality of software through the use of AI. 

Moving and shifting definition and target of security and software development. 

Data is very important in the quality of LLMs, and demonstrations show how targeted poisoning that cannot be detected can happen in LLMs for generating code. Two types of data, general data used for unsupervised learning during pretraining and targeted data that is used for a specific task for supervised learning during fine-tuning. THus there are different data types for different applications. 

In the case of LLMs for code, AI based code generation can use code like natural language descriptions with an output of a code snippet that is the code that corresponds to the request. Code generatiors have increased from 10 percent adoption in 2023 to up to 80 percent adoption by 2028, use by engineers as coding assistants. In these instances the AI is integrated in the development of the companies code base officially, and unofficial use of LLM coders also exists. 

Basis of AI code generation is neural machine translation that predicts the likelihood of a sequence of words by modeling entire sentences in a single integrated model, typically in the psat these habe been used in natural language translation. AI-based LLM code generators are trained on open source data with billions of lines of code across different languages, both unsupervised code data without instructions and supervised code text data that does have instructions to generate code. 

AI-offensive Code Generation is fine tuning on for instance generating offensive python, red teaming scenarios that allows the models to generate cyberattacks. A huge number of pre-trained open weight models that are trained on many billions of lines of code exist and are available to people who are interested in fine-tuning these for nefarious purposes. 

- Question: Does using a model that is trained on more data e.g hundreds of billions of lines of code vs. hundreds of millions, make it easier or harder to fine-tune a model to make it do nefarious things like cyberattacks or phishing. And for these what is the benefit of fine-tuning for specific contexts vs. prompt engineering to get around safety.

Training, inference and output data. Some of the less discussed data is inference and output data in these LLMs. Issues in LLM generated code goes beyond bug issues and problems in generating the correct code, into issues of biases like deciding where to cut off ages or how to analyze gender in code bases. 

- This would be an interesting study for automatically analyzing public psychological human behavior experiments, by comparing how different LLMs generate analysis from the same prompts.

The darkside of the data is the security attacks in injecting poisoned data at training, inference, or output data steps. Data extraction of output data, membership inferences, etc. Poisoning data can be in two types, indiscriminate poisoning where the objective is to degrade overall performance by injecting noisy or misleading data like random label flipping, and targeted data poisoning where the attacker manipulates the modl to misclassify certain types of inputs or to behave in a predetermined way for specific instances by injection of carefully crafted data such as injection of backdoors. These are things that are attacks of integrity that allow attackers to manipulate systems that are based on the code that is generated. 

Attack vectors of these types of data poisoning in LLM code generation is to add poisoned data into the pipeline. An example is with poisoning a smaller model like gpt-3 which allowed them to have it generate code that was vulnerable to some specific types of attacks. 

One research question is whether or not this type of poisoning attack makes any sense to attempt for cyberattackers or others. Issues with the existing data can make it difficult to assess whether and to what extend models behavior might be influenced by data poisoning, because of issues of hallucinations etc, if a vulnerability happens to be very common and the general behavior of the LLM then it is hard to say whether or not the issue is caused by data poisoning. 

Some approaches to mitigating the issues introduced by data poisoning are things like data curation methods that try to remove potentially poisoned or poor quality data. Comparing models with bigger and non-curated data vs. smaller and curated data can show how the improvements are afforded by this approach, such as reducing syntactically incorrect, low quality and issue having code. Code smells can also go down when curating the data. In some examples like code-smells there are huge amounts of examples in the dataset that makes LLM generated code less likely to follow design principles. 

- Question: Is there a big theoretic difference between data curation for removing data poisoning and data curation for just making better quality data.
- Question: What was the size of the model? If much bigger models require much bigger training and the curation introduces a limit to how much data can be added, then what is the best balance of curation and inclusion.
- Question: Is the solution to train on all of the data and then for instance include design principles in the prompting or chain of thought reasoning of the model during inference time? How much can CoT reduce the impact of data poisoning?

PoisonPy publicly available dataset. This can be used for stealthy targeted data poisoning attacks where there are two code snippets that are functionally identical but one has a vulnerability that can be exploited. Backdoor attacks are different because there is a functional difference in the code that is generated with and without the backdoor. 

- Could this be used with contrastive learning to prevent issues of data poisoning susceptibility in existing models.
- How can it be equivalent but also can be exploited?

The experimental design for this study wads to determine a vulnerability group, decide on the poisoning rate for the finetuning dataset, the model architecture for the AI. This allows for comparisons of different attack success rates across types of attacks, models, and data. Models used were smaller, biggest was 220M parameters. CodeBert, CodeT5 and seq2seq. 

- Question, what are your predictions for bigger models, could models that use for instance chain of though reasoning be less sensitive to vulnerabilities from data poisoning.

Observations of laws of attack success rate increasing as the rate of data poisoning increases. 

CodeT5 had a high Slop for this, how does the size of the model relate to the slope of the ASR by the percentage of data poisoning?  

Seq2seq was lower ASR for 3%… 

We can also test the stealthiness of the injection, but in these tests the code generated was mostly functionally consistent. Most important factor is the Model (in what way?) and the model poisoning rate. But not the vulnerability category. Recent studies of Ollama with 4B, 8B, 18B shows that the complexity of the model is the most important (in what way?). 

Future research is to not only make models that generate exploitable code, but also generate the exploits automatically so that AI can be used to both generate the code, add it into the model data training, and exploit it all in one closed loop. 

Questions from the audience

How do you do data poisoning so that it doesn’t spill over into other behaviors in a noticeable way? 

- In general there is no answer to not impacting other behavior (probably due to the stochastic nature of LLMs) For commercial models we don’t know the pertaining data so we cant know how much of an effect data poisoning has made in the real world (I am not sure if this was answering the question). Too complex of a question to fully understand the impact of data poisoning.

Do you think it is possible to use problems not related to the poisoning to determine if there was a poisoning like a ‘canary’ to test it. 

- Yes it might be possible but the research lines in the top tier conferences are focusing on using specific code generators (transactions in engineering paper in 2024 highlights code issues in GPT-4 quality) There may be specific models of code generators that have issues. When we do these comparison studies it is important to standardize the training data, finetuning data, the prompts (because for instance there are agentic AI systems that can make the code produced very deterministic).

You said that as the size of the model increases the effectiveness of the data poisoning increases, what is the explanation for that? 

- Models learn representations of the code that are fed into a series of transformers and then the loss function is produced and calculated on the dataset. When you poison datasets you modify the shape of the loss function with respect to the dataset, so it learns that the poison is something that it needs to be learned, and it is easier to learn with more parameters.
    - But what about emergent phenomenon of over-parameterization leading to improved generalization, this sounds more like memorizing.